<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
	<title>Summary: Relevance of Phase Angle in Capactive Reactance and Inductive Reactance, Transitively in Impedance, and in Calculation of RLC Circuit Resonance Frequency in AC Circuits // Genizee Project Journal</title>
	<link href="article.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<div class="article">

<div class="metadata">
<h1 class="title">Summary: Relevance of Phase Angle in Capactive Reactance and   Inductive Reactance, Transitively in Impedance, and in Calculation of   RLC Circuit Resonance Frequency in AC Circuits</h1>
<div class="author">Sean Champ</div>
<div class="pubdate">13 September, 2014</div>
</div>

<div class="content">
<blockquote><strong><em>Ed. Note:</em></strong> I'd written the first draft of this short thesis, initially, as a response to a  discussion form at DeVry University Online. The article, in its present  edition, demonstrates a couple of grammatical errors, and the bibliography in the <em>Works Consulted</em> section is rather 'Kludged' for brevity. This article was written in addressing only one  reference base -- namely, the present archives of the Hyperphysics web site, as originally published under the GSU web site. In a later edition,  the article should be revised, to be accompanied with references to additional resources, as including of <span class="citation">[<a href="#bib.Nahvi2014" name="bibfef.Nahvi2014.1" id="bibfef.Nahvi2014.1">Nahvi2014</a>]</span>
</blockquote>

<h2>Introduction</h2>
<p>As   my being a student having completed, though failing the course once   before, my point of view would of course be at least somewhat informed   of material that would be addressed later in the course. In my point of   view, as such -- consulting, this evening, the resources in the list of   &quot;Works consulted&quot; at the end of this small article, as well has having   studied of the lectures and the textbook, previously -- I would wish to   present a short thesis that the phase angle of a circuit finds a   relevance in electrical circuit design and analysis, in that both of <em>capacitive reactance</em> and <em>inductive reactance </em>have   a calculable quality of a phase angle. Furthermore, capacitive   reactance and inductive reactance, in magnitude and phase angle within a   circuit, would each have a relevance with regards to circuit   impedance.</p>
<p>
With   an apology, when I was writing the first draft of my response, using   the &quot;notes&quot; application on my phone, I'd mistakenly thought as if the question   was addressed directly in regards to <em>capacitive reactance</em> and <em>inductive reactance</em> in a circuit. The concept of a geometric phase angle, of course, would be relevant in a context of each and both of <em>capacitive reactance</em> and <em>inductive reactance</em>, and subsequently in calculation of circuit impedance.</p>
<p>
To   proceed with my initial response, though it ventures directly away from   concepts of the phase angle in a circuit:</p>
<h2>Relevance of Phase Angle</h2>
<p>A practical relevance of   capacitive reactance and inductive reactance may be observed for their   relation towards a determination of inductance and capacitance   quantities in an RLC circuit, such as towards ensuring that an RLC   circuit would function with the inductive and capacitive reactances &quot;in   phase.&quot; Certainly, the frequency of the power supply in an AC circuit   would be of some relevance, too. The hypothetical RLC AC circuit could   be designed such that the inductance and capacitance values - whether in   a series RLC circuit or a parallel RLC circuit - in effect, that the   quantities of net capacitance and net inductance, in the AC RLC circuit,   together with the frequency of the circuit's power supply, would   summarily arrive the circuit to being &quot;in phase&quot;, as between the   inductive reactance and capacitive reactance, in magnitude and phase   angle of each.</p>
<p>
Of   course, such calculation would entail a few procedural steps, as   towards a calculation of the appropriate inductance, capacitance, and   specific power source frequency for the respective RLC circuit.</p>
<p>Certainly, circuit impedance has a relevance, also. <br />
</p>

<h3>Phase Angle in Inductive Reactance and Capacitive Reactance</h3>
<p>  Considering, broadly, the following features of an RC, RL, or RLC Circuit:</p>
<ul>
<li>The phase difference between source voltage and circuit current,   specifically in RL and RLC circuits - and relatedly, <em>Inductive Reactance</em></li>
<li>The phase difference in RC and RLC circuits - and relatedly, <em>Capacitive Reactance</em> in the circuit</li>
</ul>
<p>In   a circuit using an AC power supply – whether a circuit composed as an   RC, RL, or RLC circuit - both of capacitive reactance and inductive   reactance contribute to net circuit impedance.  </p>
<h3>A Relevance of Impedance</h3>
<p>In   an AC circuit, circuit impedance is relevant for calculation of circuit   voltage and current, in a manner analogous to Ohm's Law - noting that   Ohm's Law may be applied for calculation of voltage and current over   constant or variable net resistance, in a DC circuit, as with the   mathematical relations between circuit current, voltage, and resistance   denoted in Ohm's Law.</p>
  <p>  As   modeled in the formulas I=V/Z and V=IZ, impedance 'Z' assumes an   inverse relation to circuit current and a direct relation to circuit   voltage, respectively, within an AC circuit -- perhaps in a manner   analogous to net resistance, in a resistance only circuit, whether of a   DC or AC circuit. Therefore, electrical impedance would demonstrate a   fundamental role in analysis of a existing AC circuits, if not   furthermore in design of new AC circuits.
  </p>
  <p>  Considering   the interaction of inductive reactance and capacitive reactance in an   RLC circuit, certainly both types of electrical reactance - such as may   be calculated to a net impedance, in an RC, RL, or RLC circuit, as   whether of a series or parallel circuit, in each  - but primarily in   regards to RLC circuits, both capacitive reactance and inductive   reactance may find a particular relevance for their geometric and   mechanical relation to circuit impedance and, inversely, circuit   admittance in RLC AC circuits.
  </p>
  <h3>Determination of L, C, and Resonance Frequency in Design of RLC Circuits</h3>
  <p>    Transitively,   both of inductive reactance and capacitive reactance - as would be related to   electrical impedance in RLC circuits - together, would be of relevance   as towards the calculation of a total inductance and of a total   capacitance such that would be required, in an AC circuit design, for   the circuit to arrive at a state of being in &quot;resonance&quot; between   capacitive reactance and inductive reactance, in the circuit. In a   practical sense, certainly an RLC AC circuit may be designed such that   the net capacitive reactance and net inductive reactance would each be   of a quantity as to serve to ensure that the circuit, on its power   supply, would be &quot;at resonance,&quot; in the circuit's normal functioning?
  </p>
  <p> Of   course, the AC frequency provided of the electrical power supply might   be assumed to provide a constant quantity to the same calculations -   assuming no significant variance in the AC power supply's frequency and   peak voltage.  </p>
  <p>  As contrasted to the simpler calculation of <em>resonance frequency</em> in a series RLC circuit, the relation of capacitive reactance, inductive reactance, and circuit frequency in the calculation of <em>resonance frequency</em> in   a parallel RLC circuit may be defined in a number of methods. Perhaps,   the method that would be of the most practical relevance -- among the   alternatives for such calculation -- perhaps would be the calculation of   the &quot;In phase&quot; resonance frequency, as would be calculated of the   parallel RLC circuit's resistance, reactance, and qualities of the   circuit's power supply.<br />
  </p>
  <h2>Works Consulted</h2>
  [1] Hyperphysics. <a href="http://web.archive.org/web/20130928151159/http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/electric/accap.html#c1" target="_new"><em>Capacitive Reactance</em> </a> <br />
  [2] Hyperphysics. <a href="http://web.archive.org/web/20130623182241/http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/Hbase/electric/acind.html#c1" target="_new"><em>Inductive Reactance</em> </a><br />
  [3] Hyperphysics. <a href="http://web.archive.org/web/20130527144357/http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/electric/imped.html#c1" target="_new"><em>Impedance</em> </a> <br />
  [4] Hyperphysics. <em><a href="http://web.archive.org/web/20130927235553/http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/electric/serres.html#c3" target="_new">Series Resonance </a> </em><br />
  [5] Hyperphysics. <a href="http://web.archive.org/web/20130927235553/http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/electric/parres.html" target="_new"><em>Parallel Resonance</em> </a><br />
 
<p>  As   a footnote: It seems that the Hyperphysics web site at GSU is currently   inaccessible. The web site has apparently been &quot;down,&quot; for at least a   few days now. For the purpose of denoting those resources as succinct   items of reference to my short thesis, here, I've accessed the archives   of the Hyperphysics web site, as archived at Archive.org. Those   resources are presented, at the corresponding hyperlinks, as they were   at the time when the resources were added to the archive at Archive.org.   Of course, Archive.org may be consulted for details about their web   resource archiving policies.</p>
  
  </div> <!-- .content -->
  
  <div id="bibliography">
  <h2>Additional Bibliography</h2>
  <table width="100%" border="0">
  <tr class="biblioentry">
    <td class="biblioid"><a name="bib.Nahvi2014" id="bib.Nahvi2014">Nahvi2014</a></td>
    <td class="biblioinfo">Nahvi, Mahmood and Joseph A. Edminister. <em>Electric Circuits</em>. 6th edition. McGraw-Hill (New York). 2014
	</td>
    <td class="bibliorefs">
    <div><strong>References</strong></div>
    	<ul>
    	<li><a href="#bibfef.Nahvi2014.1">1</a></li>
        </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</div> <!-- .bibliography -->
</div> <!-- .article -->
<div class="footer">
  <p>(C) 2014. Sean Champ</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>
